Add performance top documentation (#109)
Azure/portaldocs: portal-sdk/templates/top-portalfx-performance.md

{"gitdown": "contents"}

# Performance Overview

Portal performance from a customer's perspective is seen as all experiences throughout the product. 
As an extension author you have a duty to uphold your experience to the performance bar at a minimum.

| Area      | 95th Percentile Bar | Telemetry Action         | How is it measured? |
| --------- | ------------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------- |
| Extension | < 4 secs       | ExtensionLoad            | The time it takes for your extension's home page to be loaded and initial scripts, the `initialize` call to complete within your Extension definition file  |
| Blade     | < 4 secs       | BladeFullReady           | The time it takes for the blade's `onInitialize` or `onInputsSet` to resolve and all the parts on the blade to become ready |
| Part      | < 4 secs       | PartReady                | Time it takes for the part to be rendered and then the part's OnInputsSet to resolve |
| WxP       | > 80       | N/A                      | An overall experience score, calculated by weighting blade usage and the blade full ready time |

> ## Extension performance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Extension-loading performance
```

> Extension performance effects both Blade and Part performance, as your extension is loaded and unloaded as and when it is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extension-loading performance effects both Blade and Part performance, as your extension is loaded and unloaded as and when it is required.
```

> In the case a user is visiting your resource blade for the first time, the Fx will load up your extension and then request the view model, consequently your Blade/Part performance is affected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case where a user is visiting your resource blade for the first time, the Fx will load up your extension and then request the view model, consequently your Blade/Part performance is affected.
```

> If the user were to browse away from your experience and browse back before your extension is unloaded obviously second visit will be faster, as they don't pay the cost of loading the extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the user were to browse away from your experience and browse back before your extension is unloaded, obviously the user's second visit will be faster, as they don't pay the cost of loading the extension.
```

## Blade performance

Blade performance is spread across a couple of main areas:

1. Blade's constructor

> 1. Blade's onInitialize or onInputsSet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Blade's 'onInitialize' or 'onInputsSet'
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Blade's 'onInitialize' or 'onInputsSet' (and the corresponding time taken before the returned Promise resolves)
```

> 1. Any Parts within the Blade become ready

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (PDL-based <Blade> only) Any Parts nested within the Blade become ready
```

If your blade is a FrameBlade or AppBlade there is an additional initialization message from your iframe to your viewmodel which is also tracked, see the samples extension [framepage.js](https://msazure.visualstudio.com/One/Azure%20Portal/_git/AzureUX-PortalFx?path=%2Fsrc%2FSDK%2FAcceptanceTests%2FExtensions%2FSamplesExtension%2FExtension%2FContent%2FScripts%2Fframepage.js&version=GBproduction&_a=contents) for an example of what messages are required.

> All of which are encapsulated under the one 'BladeFullReady' action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of these perf costs are represented under the one 'BladeFullReady' action.
```

## Part performance

Similar to Blade performance, Part performance is spread across a couple of areas:

1. Part's constructor

> 1. Part's onInitialize or onInputsSet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Part's 'onInitialize' or 'onInputsSet'
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Part's 'onInitialize' or 'onInputsSet' (and the corresponding time taken before the returned Promise resolves)
```

If your part is a FramePart there is an additional initialization message from your iframe to your viewmodel which is also tracked, see the samples extension [framepage.js](https://msazure.visualstudio.com/One/Azure%20Portal/_git/AzureUX-PortalFx?path=%2Fsrc%2FSDK%2FAcceptanceTests%2FExtensions%2FSamplesExtension%2FExtension%2FContent%2FScripts%2Fframepage.js&version=GBproduction&_a=contents) for an example of what messages are required.

> All of which are encapsulated under the one 'PartReady' action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of these perf costs are represented under the one 'PartReady' action.
```

## WxP score

> The WxP score is a per extension Weight eXPerience score (WxP). It is calculated by the as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The WxP score is a per extension Weight eXPerience score (WxP). It is calculated by the Azure Portal team as follows:
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The WxP score is a per-extension Weight eXPerience score (WxP). It is calculated by the as follows:
```

```txt

WxP = (BladeViewsMeetingTheBar * 95thPercentileBar) / ((BladeViewsMeetingTheBar * 95thPercentileBar) + ∑(BladeViewsNotMeetingTheBar * ActualLoadTimePerBlade))

```

| Blade   | 95th Percentile Times | Usage Count | Meets 95th Percentile Bar? |
| ------- | --------------------- | ----------- | -------------------------- |
| Blade A | 1.2                   | 1000        | Yes                        |
| Blade B | 5                     | 500         | No                         |
| Blade C | 6                     | 400         | No                         |

```txt

WxP = (BladeViewsMeetingTheBar * 95thPercentileBar) / ((BladeViewsMeetingTheBar * 95thPercentileBar) + ∑(BladeViewsNotMeetingTheBar * ActualLoadTimePerBlade)) %
    = (4 * 1000) / ((4 * 1000) + ((5 * 500) + (6 * 400))) %
    = 44.94%

```

> As you can see the model penalizes the number of views which don’t meet the bar and weights those.

Reviewer: "and weights those" what?  Complete the sentence pls.

Author: Wow, this hasn't been touched in a long time. This might well be the longest I've taken to ever finish a sentence

## How to assess your performance

There are two methods to assess your performance:

1. Visit the IbizaFx provided PowerBi report*
1. Run Kusto queries locally to determine your numbers

    (*) To get access to the PowerBi dashboard reference the [Telemetry onboarding guide][TelemetryOnboarding], then access the following [Extension performance/reliability report][Ext-Perf/Rel-Report]

The first method is definitely the easiest way to determine your current assessment as this is maintained on a regular basis by the Fx team.
You can, if preferred, run queries locally but ensure you are using the Fx provided Kusto functions to calculate your assessment.

> ### Extension

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Extension-loading
```

### Part

[database('Partner').PartPerformance(ago(1h), now())](https://aka.ms/kwe?cluster=azportal.kusto.windows.net&database=AzurePortal&q=H4sIAAAAAAAAA0tJLElMSixO1VAPSCwqyUstUtfUA7ECUovS8otyE%2FOSUzUS0%2FM1DDM0dRTy8ss1NDW5AIGipTc0AAAA)

PartPerformance will return a table with the following columns:

- FullPartName, Extension, PartName
    - Part/Extension identifiers
- PartCount
    - How many times the part was loaded within the given date range
- Samples
    - The number of loads which were tracking the number of XHR requests
- XHRCount, XHRCount95th, XHRMax
    - The 50th percentile (95th or MAX) of XHR requests sent which correlate to that part load (*) This is a rough heuristic, based on a 1% sampling.
- Bytes
    - Bytes transferred to the client via XHR requests
- 50th, 80th, 95th, 99th
    - The time it takes for your part to resolve its `onInputsSet` or `onInitialize` promise. This is captured under the `PartReady` action in telemetry
 - RedScore
   - Number of violations for tracked bars 

# Performance Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

> ## My Extension 'load' is above the bar, what should I do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## My Extension 'load' is above the bar, what should I do?
```

Author: Markdown headers shouldn't end in punctuation https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/v0.11.0/doc/Rules.md#md026---trailing-punctuation-in-heading

1. Profile what is happening in your extension load. [Profile your scenario](#performance-profiling)
1. Are you using the Portal's ARM token? If no, verify if you can use the Portal's ARM token and if yes, follow: [Using the Portal's ARM token](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/resource-manager-api-authentication)
1. Are you on the hosting service? If no, migrate to the hosting service: [Hosting service documentation](portalfx-extension-hosting-service.md#extension-hosting-service)
    - If you are, have you enabled prewarming? 
        - Follow http://aka.ms/portalfx/docs/prewarming to enable prewarming for your extension load.
1. Are you using obsolete bundles? 
    - If yes, remove your dependency to them and then remove the obsolete bitmask. This is a blocking download before your extension load. See below for further details.
1. See our [best practices](#performance-best-practices)

## My Blade 'FullReady' is above the bar, what should I do

> 1. Assess what is happening in your Blades's `onInitialize` or constructor and `onInputsSet`. [Profile your scenario](#performance-profiling)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Assess what is happening in your Blades's `onInitialize` (no-PDL) or constructor and `onInputsSet` (PDL). [Profile your scenario](#performance-profiling)
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Assess what is happening in your Blades's `onInitialize` (no-PDL) or constructor and `onInputsSet` (PDL), including time taken in any async operations associated with the returned Promise. [Profile your scenario](#performance-profiling)
```

    1. Can that be optimized?
1. If there are any AJAX calls;

>     1. Can they use batch? If so, migrate over to use the batch api.

Reviewer: Add a link to GuruA's great top doc on this?

    1. Wrap them with custom telemetry and ensure they you aren't spending a large amount of time waiting on the result. If you are to do this, please only log one event per blade load, this will help correlate issues but also reduce unneccesary load on telemetry servers.

> 1. How many parts are on the blade?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Are you using an old PDL "Blade containing Parts"? How many parts are on the blade?
```

    - If there is only a single part, if you're not using a no-pdl blade or `<TemplateBlade>` migrate your current blade to a no-pdl blade.
    - If there are multiple parts, migrate over to use a no-pdl blade.
    - Ensure to support any old pinned parts when you migrate.
1. Does your blade open within a resource menu blade?

>     - If it does, ensure the `getMenuConfig` call is returned statically (< 10ms). You can make use of the enabled/disabled observable property on menu items, if you need to asynchronously determine to enable a menu item. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If it does, ensure the `getMenuConfig` call is returned synchronously (< 10ms). You can make use of the enabled/disabled observable property on menu items, if you need to asynchronously determine to enable a menu item. 
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If it does, ensure the `getMenuConfig` call is returned statically/synchronously (< 10ms). You can make use of the enabled/disabled observable property on menu items, if you need to asynchronously determine to enable a menu item. 
```

1. See our [best practices](#performance-best-practices)
    

> ## My Part 'Ready' is above the bar, what should I do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## My Part 'Ready' is above the bar, what should I do?
```

> 1. Assess what is happening in your Part's `onInitialize` or constructor and `onInputsSet`. [Profile your scenario](#performance-profiling)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Assess what is happening in your Part's `onInitialize` (no-PDL) or constructor and `onInputsSet` (PDL), including time taken in any async operations associated with the returned Promise. [Profile your scenario](#performance-profiling)
```

- __Contacts:__ Sean Watson (sewatson)
- __Goals__
    - Help extensions to meet the performance bar
    - Help extensions to measure performance 
    - Help extensions to understand their current performance status
- __How to book time__: Send a meeting request with the following
    - TO: sewatson;
    - Subject: YOUR_EXTENSION_NAME: Azure performance office hours
    - Location: Conf Room 41/24 (It is already reserved)

# Performance best practices

## Operational best practices

- Enable performance alerts
    - To ensure your experience never regresses unintentionally, you can opt into configurable alerting on your extension, blade and part load times. See [performance alerting](index-portalfx-extension-monitor.md#performance)
- Move to [hosting service](portalfx-extension-hosting-service.md#extension-hosting-service)
    - We've seen every team who have onboarded to the hosting service get some performance benefit from the migration. 
        - Performance benefits vary from team to team given your current infrastructure
        - We've commonly seen teams improve their performance by > 0.5s at the 95th  
    - If you are not on the hosting service ensure;

>         1. Homepage caching is enabled

Reviewer: Do you have links to docs for these?

Author: Updated where I can

```xml
  <Import Project="$(PkgMicrosoft_Portal_Tools)\build\Microsoft.Portal.Tools.V2.targets" />
```

## Enabling CloudBuild support

- Add the following to the csproj inside an ItemGroup if you have any `<Svg>` tags in the csproj. This tag informs CloudBuild that Svg MsBuild Items are consider inputs to the project.

```xml
  <AvailableItemName Include="Svg">
     <Visible>False</Visible>
  </AvailableItemName>
```

## Common errors

- Make sure that the `Microsoft.Portal.Tools.V2.targets` is imported after the C# and WebApplication targets. The ordering should look like something before.

```xml
  <Import Project="$(MSBuildToolsPath)\Microsoft.CSharp.targets" />
  <Import Project="$(MSBuildExtensionsPath32)\Microsoft\VisualStudio\v15.0\WebApplications\Microsoft.WebApplication.targets" />
  <Import Project="$(NuGetPath_Microsoft_Portal_Tools)\build\Microsoft.Portal.Tools.V2.targets" Condition="Exists('$(NuGetPath_Microsoft_Portal_Tools)\build\Microsoft.Portal.Tools.V2.targets')" />
```

## Breaking changes between V1 and V2 targets

- The output location of pde files has been changed from `$(ProjectDir)Client` to `$(OutDir)`.

> # Dependency injected view models

Reviewer: Add wimoy's contact info here.  There are so many steps here that they're bound to have questions.

Author: I think it might be best to get these as stack overflow posts, that way other folks will benefit from the answers too.
